Joe Welage
Professor Annexstein
CS 5001
12 September 2022 

	The main overarching idea for the design project is to create a VST plugin that will report back a given musical scale for whatever a recording artist is performing. This plugin sets out to be utilized partly as a learning tool for novice recording artists and as time saving and communication tool for the experienced. Using the JUCE Framework, the plugin will contain a useful user interface and various settings to fine tune the plugin. Investigating, implementing, and possibly improving upon various algorithms related to pitch identification, and by extension scale identification, will be one main aspect of this project alongside the UI design. Another aspect will be to use machine learning within the plugin and how to best optimize its usage in that given context. Overall, the areas that will be included in this project is signal processing, algorithmic identification of scales, and automation.

	The curriculum I took part in that will assist in this project consisted of basic CS courses which include CS 1021C (CS 1), CS 2011 (Intro to Computer Systems), CS 2021 (Python Programming), CS 2028C (Data Structures), CS 2071 (Discrete Structures), CS 3003 (Programming Languages), CS 4033 (AI Principles), CS 4065 (Computer Networks), CS 4071 (Design and Analysis of Algorithms), and CS 4092 (Database Design). Other courses taken include CS 5138 (Malware Analysis), CS 5153 (Network Security), CS 5158 (Data Security), CS 5165 (Cloud Computing), CS 5125 (Data Encoding), and CS 5170 (Automata). Through classes like Cloud Computing I've gained experience and improved my skills in fullstack application design for web and desktop applications, through Operating Systems and Networking a  better understanding of operating systems and computer/networking systems as a whole, and through classes like Malware Analysis and Data Security a better understanding of cyber security principals, skills, and tools. Soft skills learned from classes like Software Engineering are learning how to work within an Agile environment and the organizational tools needed to develop a successful piece of software. With the resources gained from these classes, the biggest aspect that will help me with the senior design project is the ability to investigate problems efficiently, especially if the problem at hand requires a better knowledge of what is happening at a low-level.
	
	Co-op experience includes interning at an engineering simulation software company, Ansys Inc., and interning at TQL, a third party logistics provider. At Ansys I was on a team that specialized in the meshing feature used in the company's main product. On this team I gained experience doing front-end development by implementing GUI elements through C/C++ and setting up calls to various in-house APIs used to generate graphics and different meshing outcomes based on user selected settings. While there I also learned how to work in software development, the daily routines and tasks required to contribute to my team. At TQL I am currently in the software developer role for the company's Android applications. There I’ve continued to improve my abilities working in an Agile environment, taking on all the roles required for a level one developer. Also gained from this experience is becoming proficient with Android application development using Kotlin, a better understanding of the Android OS, and gaining experience with fullstack development with a backend implemented in C#/.NET. Learning how to design for a non-desktop application and all of the constraints and design principals that change when developing for mobile will also come in handy for developing this plugin. 

	The main motivation for wanting to participate in this project is, first, 
wanting to learn more about signal processing and wanting to expose myself to an area of development I have had little experience in. Second reason for my motivation is my background with music. Having learned guitar from an early age and learned trombone while participating in Highschool band -- as well as my general enjoyment of listening to music live and recorded music -- is grounds for pushing me to work on this project. With this motivation, the entire aim of this project is to have a fully functioning VST plugin by the end of the senior design class that fulfills the originally stated intentions of my team’s design. In pursuance of this goal the initial steps for myself and the team will be to familiarize our self with various pitch and scale identification algorithms, the JUCE Framework, how to use different machine learning algorithms to obtain a successful design, and to plot out the general timeline to complete the plugin.

	At the end of this project timeline, whether the project was a success or not will be determined by a couple factors. First, if the expected result of having a fully functional VST plugin is met. Second, if all members contribute and create a functional team where all self determined deadlines are met. These two success factors will be used as a metric for determining my own self-evaluation where I will hold my self accountable to completing any GUI related user stories as well as participating in helping design and implement the backend processing when necessary. Alongside this I will hold myself to the standard of working on this project almost daily including time needed to research and time to actually plan and write out code. With this plan and method of self evaluation, having a fully functional application is within the realm of feasibility by the end of next spring. 
	
